A year ago, Kevin Chou decided against an initial public offering for his company, Kabam, which makes smartphone games based on popular Hollywood franchises. Instead, the chief executive officer opted to let employees and early investors sell $40 million worth of stock to investors, a move that didn’t subject Kabam’s finances to public scrutiny on a quarterly basis. “We’ve kind of taken the need for an IPO off the table,” says Chou. It was the second time Kabam had done that in two years.
When a startup that’s considered going public decides not to, it’s generally seen as a defeat. But Chou got some validation on Nov. 2, when Activision Blizzard bought King Digital Entertainment, the maker of Candy Crush, for $5.9 billion. While that’s a lot of money, it’s $1.2 billion less than King’s 2014 IPO value. The Activision deal was a reminder of both how big mobile game companies can become and how vulnerable they remain.
King is one of the giants of mobile gaming. Almost 500 million people play Candy Crush and related titles, and King has made well over $100 million in profit in each quarter since its IPO. Investors got nervous, though, as the company failed to produce a comparably popular follow-up. Earlier casual-gaming leaders such as Zynga and Rovio have seen their fortunes fall.
Mobile gaming has proven lucrative, but that doesn’t mean making lucrative games is easy. Enduring success in the industry requires a steady string of games that reach blockbuster status. “Nobody knows what the formula looks like,” says Chou.
For more than six years, Kabam has ridden the waves of the game business. Chou and two co-founders started the company in 2006 as Watercooler, a social network focused on sports. They later switched to developing games for Facebook, then their own site, and eventually shifted their focus to mobile.Kabam’s revenue reached $400 million last year, and the company says it’s been profitable since 2012. Its latest big game is Marvel: Contest of Champions, which sets up fights between superheroes such as Spider-Man and Thor. The game made $100 million within seven months of its December launch and has consistently ranked among the 10 top-grossing iOS games, says researcher App Annie.
Licensing popular characters has helped Kabam stand out in a field of hundreds of thousands of games. It’s also forced the company to share revenue with rights holders. And hit movies don’t always make for hit games. Kabam’s recent adaptations of The Lord of the Rings and The Hunger Games never brought in much money, and Kabam’s overall revenue grew only 7 percent in 2014 after doubling the year before. The company declined to provide more recent data.
In April, Kabam began to lay off an undisclosed number of its 825 employees. Since then the company has shifted away from publishing other developers’ games, ditched its Web division, and cut the number of titles in development from dozens to just a few. Chief Operating Officer Kent Wakeford says Kabam is no longer interested in making a bevy of marginally profitable games and wants to concentrate its efforts. “It’s riskier if we’re going to launch two to four games a year,” he says. “But do you want 20 games that make $1 million a month or one game that does $100 million a month?”
Kabam is also betting big on China, which surpassed the U.S. this year as the biggest market for mobile games—about 420 million people there pay $5.5 billion annually, says researcher Niko Partners. Western gaming companies typically haven’t done well in China, where tastes differ and local gatekeepers dominate access to the market. Kabam, however, has closer ties to China than most rivals do. Chou and his two co-founders are the children of Chinese immigrants, and the company has had a studio in the country for five years. Alibaba invested $120 million in Kabam in July 2014, a deal that valued the company at more than $1 billion.
Early next year, Kabam plans to launch a version of Marvel: Contest of Champions tailored for China. Although Kabam has experimented unsuccessfully with Chinese iterations of its games in the past, it’s invested considerably more time and effort this time. Chou says the company paid Marvel parent Walt Disney more to license the characters for use in China than it did for the U.S. version, and it’s dedicated 200 people to localizing the game.
Some of the changes are relatively simple, such as reworking the user interface to accommodate text that can be read from top to bottom rather than left to right. The Chinese version will also offer more virtual gear, such as dragons and special weapons, that can be earned through hours of play or bought with real money. Chinese government censorship is also a factor: Games in China can’t show blood unless it’s given an unrealistic color, and resurrection is off-limits.
Success in China could raise Contest of Champions into the top stratum of mobile games. Yet even that wouldn’t prove Kabam, or any company that just makes mobile games, can survive on its own, says Santosh Rao, head of research at Manhattan Venture Partners. After Activision bought King, Rao sent a research note to investors saying the industry is ripe for consolidation. In an interview, he says Kabam’s success could make it an acquisition target, and selling out would help the company survive between hits.
Like Chou, Rao says it’s a good thing Kabam didn’t push for an IPO. “It would have been a disaster,” he says. “This is a very spotty business. You’re only as good as your last game.”
The bottom line: Kabam’s revenue reached $400 million last year, but like most mobile game makers, it’s struggling to build a catalog of hits.